## The working concept of _precision_ noise

Most systems, from simple servos to suspension bridges, are subject to random disturbances which must be accounted for in the design and, if possible, simulated at the prototype test phase. For the purpose of simulation it seems appropriate to use a randomly varying test signal--that is, low-frequency noise--rather than the traditional sine wave. In environmental testing, too, the real-life "shock environment" can often be reproduced accurately with a noise-simulated transducer. The desirability of noise as a test signal has been appreciated for many years, but general acceptance of the technique has been slow--principally owing to the lack of satisfactory generators and related test gear for low-frequency noise.

_Characterizing noise_

The power spectrum describes only the frequency content of the noise signal, but does not characterize its waveshape: This is specified by the probability density function (PDF), a statistical indication of the proportion of time spent b the signal at various amplitudes. The most commonly encountered pdf is the classical bell-shaped or Gaussian curve so familiar is statistics: This particular pdf characterizes most random phenomena--for example atmospheric climate changes--and a noise signal designed to simulate such phenomena must have a pdf which closely approximates the Gaussian curve.

The question of pdf is another problem area with conventional noise generators. How can 'Gaussianness' be specified and over what period of time must the signal be evaluated to be certain that its amplitude characteristics tend to be Gaussian? Are the signal properties observed in a given period representative of the next similar period? This suggests that a series of identical experiments involving truly random noise will yield different results each time. This _statistical variance_ can often be reduced to acceptable limits by increasing the observation--that is, averaging--time; it can never entirely be eliminated although we can be more certain that having not worked this problem in the first place.

_Pseudorandom noise_

The need exists, then, for a test signal having the desirable properties of random noise--that is, broad spectrum and Gaussian probability density function--yet not having the bad property -- _randomness_. In other words, the signal should be one which introduces no statistical variance into test results, even through the measurements are made in a finite time. Such a signal exists: _Pseudorandom_ noise is a signal which looks and acts like random noise but is in fact periodic. This kind of noise is the main product of the Model 3722A Noise Generator.

Pseudorandom waveforms from the 3722A consist of completely defined patterns of selectable length, repeated over and over without interruption. They have power spectra and pdfs similar to those of random noise but, because the waveforms are synthesized, their statistical properties are precisely known. Perhaps the most important feature of pseudorandom noise testing is the fact that, if the measurement time is made exactly equal to the length of one pseudorandom pattern interval, the results of the experiment will be identical at every repetition, provided nothing else has changed.

This repeatability of pseudorandom noise is especially valuable when parameters of the system under test are varied; for example in an analog computer model of a complex nervous system. In such tests, it is reassuring to know that changes in test results arise from parameter manipulation and not from statistical variance in the test signal. The basic output from the Model 3722A is two-level binary noise (random telegraph signal), available as a pseudorandom signal in a variety of pattern lengths, and also as a truly random, non-repeating signal. Binary noise is commonly used in testing systems controlled by two-state elements such as switches, relays, and fluid control valves. [MORE] However, binary noise has assumed greater importance in connection with actual identification of systems; that is, obtaining the impulse response of a system by injecting low-level binary noise into the system and then cross-correlating the input and output signals. This will be described in experiments using a [hp5480a](https://github.com/cartheur/hp5480a) and [hp3721a](https://github.com/cartheur/hp3721a).

The principal output from the Model 3722A is Gaussian noise, which is derived from the binary signal by low-pass filtering. A unique method of digital filtering is employed to give an almost rectangular power spectrum with very little power beyond a selectable cutoff frequency. The particular advantage of this digital filter, as opposed to the conventional analog filter, is that it yields a signal of constant power regardless of cutoff frequency. It is to be noted that analog filtering is not practical at the very low frequencies useful in noise testing--the lowest cutoff frequency of the digital filter in the Model 3722A is about 1 cycle in 100 minutes!